#summary Current task status

=Design=
  * ~~Create design document - [JamesM] , [JamesP] , [Joerg]~~
=Implementation=
  * ~~Create initial kernel files, parsing of bootstrap struct etc. - [JamesM]~~
  * ~~Create basic machine dependent files, providing machine abstraction - [Joerg]~~
  * ~~Create physical memory manager - [Joerg]~~
  * ~~Create virtual memory manager - [Joerg]~~
  * ~~Create kernel debugger - [JamesM]~~
  * ~~Write scheduler and create Process/Thread abstraction - [JamesM]~~
  * ~~Multiprocessor synchronization primitives - [Joerg]~~
  * ~~Basic data structures: list, vector, ... - [Joerg]~~
  * Networking (NE2000 and 3c90xC drivers, protocols) - [Matt] - *In progress*
  * ~~FAT filesystem drivers - [Matt]~~
  * ~~Standard Library port - [JamesM]~~
  * ~~Module interface and loading - [JamesM]~~
  * ~~VFS - [JamesM]~~
  * PPC needs shared libary loading - [JamesM]
  * x64 needs module loading, shared library loading, syscall managing, etc. - [JamesM]
  * VBE driver -- [JamesM] - *In progress*
  * TCP -- [Matt] - *In progess*
  * Signals -- _Unassigned_
  * Caching -- [Matt], [JamesM]
  * Full VT100 emulation - colours, cursor etc -- [JamesM] -- *In progress*
  * Permissions system -- _Unassigned_
  * Settings system - read from file? accessible by a specific class -- _Unassigned_
  * Refactor of KernelElf, Elf32, Elf64 and FileLoader -- [JamesM] -- *In progress*, see /branches/elf-refactor
  * Refactor of path search algorithm -- _Unassigned_
  * Implement getcwd _ourselves_, so we can resolve drive identifiers easier.
  * Implement lazy binding in the dynamic linker of PLT relocations. -- _JamesM_
  * String class should handle UTF8 properly, and all algorithms that currently operate on char*s should be ported. Also String should get some nice shiny new member functions (like operator== :/)
  * Filesystem write support.
  * Ext2 driver should handle sparse files.

=Bugs - urgent=
  * ~~Fix syscall errors not propagating to errno -- JamesM~~
  * Kill tasks on page fault, not enter debugger. -- _Unassigned_
  * Generally improve the verbosity of error messages - catch 'em early. -- _Unassigned_

=Miscellaneous=
  * ~~Build system - [JamesM]~~
  * Regression testing system - [JamesM]